


			Title:- Detection of Pneumonia in Thoracic Radiographic Images Using A Deep Convolutional Neural Networks.


Pneumonia, an interstitial lung disease, is the leading cause of death in children under the age of five. It accounted for approximately 16% of the deaths of children under the age of five, killing around 880,000 children in 2016 according to a study conducted by UNICEF. Affected children were mostly less than two years old. Timely detection of pneumonia in children can help to fast-track the process of recovery. This paper presents convolutional neural network models to accurately detect pneumonic lungs from chest X-rays, which can be utilized in the real world by medical practitioners to treat pneumonia. Experimentation was conducted on Chest X-Ray Images (Pneumonia) dataset available on Kaggle. The first, second, third and fourth model consists of one, two, three and four convolutional layers, respectively. The first model achieves an accuracy of 89.74%, the second one reaches an accuracy of 85.26%, the third model achieves an accuracy of 92.31%, and lastly, the fourth model achieves an accuracy of 91.67%. Dropout regularization is employed in the second, third and fourth models tominimize overfitting in the fully connected layers. Furthermore, recall and F1 scores are calculated from the confusion matrix of each model for better evaluation.

Project Feature :- 
Chest X-rays are commonly used to detect pneumonia. In a chest X-ray, the lungs and surrounding tissues are imaged using low levels of radiation to produce an image of the chest. In a person with pneumonia, the chest X-ray may show : An area of increased density in the lungs, which may indicate consolidation or fluid buildup Patchy areas of white or gray, which may indicate inflammation In severe cases, an abscess or cavity may be visible
However, it's important to note that not all cases of pneumonia will be visible on a chest X-ray. Some cases of pneumonia may only be visible on a CT scan or other imaging tests. Additionally, not all abnormalities seen on a chest X-ray are caused by pneumonia, and further testing may be necessary to confirm a diagnosis.
It's also important to keep in mind that chest X-rays alone cannot diagnose the cause of pneumonia - additional tests such as blood cultures, sputum tests, and viral testing may be necessary to determine the underlying cause of the infection.

Abstract :- 
	Pneumonia, an interstitial lung disease, is the leading cause of death in people under the age of 60. It accounted for approximately 16% of the deaths of people under forty. 2.5 million people died from pneumonia in 2019 according to a study conducted by WHO. Affected people mainly were less than from the range of 60-70 years old. Timely detection of pneumonia in people can help to fast-track the process of recovery. This system presents convolutional neural network models to accurately detect pneumonic lungs from chest X-rays, which medical practitioners can use in the real world to treat pneumonia. Experimentation was conducted on Chest X-Ray Images (Pneumonia) dataset available on Kaggle. Our model will consist of one, two, three, and four convolutional layers, respectively.
